# Lab 1: EasyQoS and related APIs - Create Policy Tag

<font color='red'>Note: The rest of sessions are based on APIC-EM v1.2, in this release the EasyQoS feature is still in beta.</font>

To configure QoS on the devices in your network, first you define the scope of the devices that you want to apply QoS policies on - "Policy Tag" will be used for this. Then you define the QoS policy for the scope. The Cisco APIC-EM takes your selections, translates them into the proper device configurations, and deploys them as QoS configurations onto the devices defined in the scope.

#### Policy comprises the following elements:

* Policy Scope — Group of devices with the same policy tag that will be configured with the policy.

* Applications — Software programs or network signaling protocols that are being used in your network. EasyQoS includes the Cisco Network Based Application Recognition, second generation (NBAR2) application library of approximately 1400 distinct applications and sub-applications. In this session we will create a custom application to be used for creating policy.

* Traffic Classes—Groups of applications that make configuring policies easier, because the groups contain applications that have similar traffic needs.

* Business-relevance—Attribute that classifies a given application according to how relevant it is to your business and operations. The attributes are business relevant, default, and business irrelevant


## Objectives
**Learn how to use the EasyQoS related APIs to create a policy tag.**

These are the steps of creating a policy by using APIC-EM APIs


1. <font color='red'>Create Policy Tag</font>
   * POST /policy/tag 
2. Policy scopes - attach policy tags to network devices (where you want EasyQOS to be enabled)
   * POST /policy/tag/association
3. Select application(s) to be used in policy, create custom one if you need to.
   * POST /application
4. Create and Apply Policy.
   * POST /policy


## Step 1 - Create policy tag
It is straight forward to use **`POST /policy/tag`** API.
We just need to assign a tag name (string) to the "policy tag" attribute and use it for the POST request.

```
{
  "policyTag": "put your policy tag name here"
}
```
### Code -- Create policy tag ```POST /policy/tag```

[APIC-EM API Reference Docs](http://devnetapic.cisco.com/)

*  Source code file: lab1-1-post-policy-tag.py
*  To run the python file, execute one of the following commands:


	**Linux** or **Mac OS:**  `python3 lab1-1-post-policy-tag.py`
	
	**Windows:**    `py -3 lab1-1-post-policy-tag.py` or `python lab1-1-post-policy-tag.py`


**Code listing - lab1-1-post-policy-tag.py**

```
from apicem import * # APIC-EM IP is assigned in apicem_config.py

# Ask user's input 
# In the loop until input is not null or is 'exit'

while True:
    pTag = input('=> Enter policy tag name that you like to create: ')
    pTag = pTag.replace(" ","") # ignore space
    if pTag.lower() == 'exit': 
        sys.exit()  
    if pTag == "":
        print ("Oops! Policy tag name cannot be NULL please try again or enter 'exit'")
    else:
        break

# post policy tag

tag_json = {
  "policyTag": pTag
}

try:
    resp = post(api="policy/tag", data=tag_json)
    status = resp.status_code
    print("status: ",status)
    print ("Response:",json.dumps(resp.json(),indent=4))
except:
    print ("Something wrong with POST /policy/tag !")

```

### Output
```
=> Enter policy tag name that you like to create: ptag1
status:  202
Response: {
    "version": "1.0",
    "response": {
        "taskId": "91702000-c09d-4d22-b935-62d043f72506",
        "url": "/api/v1/task/91702000-c09d-4d22-b935-62d043f72506"
    }
}

```
To check if the policy tag is created we can use `GET /policy/tag` API(see lab1-2-get-policy-tag.py). We should see something like the following:

```
{
  "response": [
    {
      "policyTag": "ptag1"
    }
  ],
  "version": "1.0"
}
```

### => Proceed to next session for the Policy Scopes
