labs/apic-em-basic/1.md, before:

# APIC-EM REST API Learning Labs - Basic Labs

### <font color='red'><b>This Lab is for the GA release 1.2. The url for DevNet APIC-EM GA 1.2 always on sandbox is https://sandboxapic.cisco.com </b></font>

## Getting Started

If you are using Cisco-provided hardware at a Cisco event:

*  Lab files are already downloaded into working directory: **C:\apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs**
*  You DO NOT need to change any settings.<br></br>

If you are working from your own laptop, please take the following steps to set up your system:

*  Install Python 3 and Git on your computer. See **How To Set up Your Own Computer** at the top of this page.
*  Download and install Git.  The download URL is **[https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)**
*  Download the lab files from GitHub.<br>
 
```
cd <your working directory>
```

If you are in the DevNet Zone at a Cisco Live Event open the Git Command window by either clicking on the 'Git CMD' icon on the Task Bar or in the Run bar type 'git cmd'.  In the git command window type the command below.

```
git clone https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs
```
After the git clone completes, you will have all of the Python files that the lab steps use.
*  In order to run the Python scripts outside of a Cisco event, you need to set the **ip** variable to the IP address of the Cisco APIC-EM controller that you want the scripts to call. This variable is in the **apicem_config.py** file.
For example:

```
ip = 'sandboxapic.cisco.com'
```
## Executing Lab Examples

To execute the scripts, take the following steps:

1. Open a terminal and switch to the directory that holds the learning lab sample code.  Typically, this is the **`apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs`** directory of your working directory.
2. Invoke Python3 as appropriate for your OS:

  *Mac OS or Linux:* **type: python3 _programName_**<br/>
  *Windows:* **type: py –3 _programName_**. Or **type: python _programName_**
  </p>




## Overview
The APIC-EM Controller provides REST-based API access to Enterprise, WAN and Campus networks. Network programmability and automated network control helps IT to respond more rapidly to changing network conditions and related business opportunities.

The APIC-EM has a southbound interface that speaks directly to the network control plane. Southbound interfaces are not exposed directly but are used to execute the commands that you specify with via the Northbound (NB) REST API. Thus, you can use the Northbound REST API to APIC-EM to develop your own custom controller or to add dynamic SDN functionality directly into your own applications.

## About this Learning Lab
This learning lab demonstrates basic usage of the Cisco APIC-EM Northbound REST API.

### What You Should Know Already

If you are not familiar with the following topics, you can complete the **[Coding 101: REST API Basics Lab](https://learninglabs.cisco.com/labs/coding-101-rest-basics-ga/step/1)** to learn about REST and JSON before returning to this lab.

This lab assumes you are familiar with the following:

* [**REST** (Representational State Transfer)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer)<br>
**Representational State Transfer (REST)** is a programming model that is based on the HTTP request-response model. A REST request is similar to the text that you type into your Web browser's address bar to go to a Web site.

*  [**JSON** (JavaScript Object Notation)](http://json.org)<br>
**JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)** represents REST data in a human-readable block format that looks similar to JavaScript.  

*  [**Python programming language**](https://www.python.org/)<br>
   You don't have to be a Python expert to work through this lab, but some familiarity with Python or another high-level programming language is necessary.

### Structure of Learning Lab Code Examples
Each lab provides a code example that consists of three main sections:

* **Code**: The Python code that executes a particular REST request  
* **Output**: The complete result of executing the code example. Note that your result may not match this Web page exactly.
* **Explanation**: A description that interleaves code and output to describe how the code works, what the output means, and any other points of interest, such as things to keep in mind when writing your own code.

### Shorthand Notation of APIC-EM NB REST API URLs
A complete Northbound REST request to the Cisco APIC-EM controller takes the form of a URL like the following example:

```
https://fqdn-Or-IPofController/api/v1/api_itself
```

This part of the URL, called the **Base URL**, <i> i.e </i> **https://fqdn-Or-IPofController**, is common to all requests sent to a particular controller:


### About APIC-EM Northbound (NB) REST API Version Numbers
Every Cisco APIC-EM request URL includes a version number. The GA release of Cisco APIC-EM provides version 1 of the NB REST API; calls to this controller must include v1 in the URL.  For the most part, the Learning Labs use GA 1.0 Cisco APIC-EM controllers and v1 of the NB REST API. <br/>
**Example:** api/v1/host


## Issuing HTTP Requests from Python

#### HTTP methods used in APIC-EM REST API
The APIC-EM Northbound REST API uses standard HTTP methods to CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) data.

HTTP | Operation
:------:|:------------:
POST| 	Create new data
GET | 	Read (Retrieve) existing data
PUT | 	Update existing data
DELETE |	Delete existing data

The following code snippets show how to use the Python `requests` library to issue each of these HTTP requests. You can  use these snippets as templates for issuing your own HTTP requests in this lab.

These examples rely on the following conventions:

* **apicem\_ip** is the IP address or fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) of the Cisco APIC-EM controller to which you are sending the request. <i>See</i> "Getting Started" for more information.

* **request\_name** is the portion of the NB REST API that you are calling  


#### GET
A **GET** request retrieves existing data.
```
import requests
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
response = requests.get(url,verify=False)
```

#### POST
A **POST** request creates new data. For security reasons, the Northbound REST API to APIC-EM always places POST request parameters and arguments in the JSON body.
```
import requests
import json

json_obj = {
"key":"value"
}
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
# need to specify content type -json- for POST request #
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}
response = requests.post(url, json.dumps(json_object), headers=headers,verify=False)
```

#### PUT
A **PUT** request modifies existing data. For security reasons, the NB REST API to APIC-EM always places PUT request parameters and arguments in the JSON body.

```
import requests
import json

json_obj = {
"key":"value_to_change"
}
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
# need to specify content type -json- for PUT request #
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}
response = requests.put(url, json.dumps(json_object), headers=headers,verify=False)
```

#### DELETE
A **DELETE** request removes existing data.

```
import requests
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
response = requests.delete(url,verify=False)
```


## APIC-EM REST API Reference
For reference treatment of all NB REST APIs to the Cisco APIC-EM controller, see the
[Cisco APIC-EM API Reference Docs](http://devnetapic.cisco.com/)

## APIC-EM server in this lab
This lab uses the Cisco APIC-EM controller that the [Cisco DevNet Always-On Sandbox](https://developer.cisco.com/site/devnet/sandbox/) provides. To use a different controller, set the **apicem_ip** variable in the **apicem_config.py** file appropriately. For more information, *see* the "Getting Started" section of this lab.

## Sample scripts
All Python sample scripts are working in a flat directory.
**apicem\_config.py** 
is used for configuring parameters in different environment. 
Those parameters are APIC-EM IP (including port number), username, password and the apic-em API version number. If you are using your own APIC-EM this is the file you need to modify.
**apicem.py**
This script contains common functions. Every script needs to import apicem.py except the first sample script that demonstrates how to get service ticket.

## What's next?
The following lab sessions create simple Python applications that interact with the Cisco APIC-EM controller by means of the NB REST API. We recommend strongly that you run the scripts in each lab session to see the live responses from APIC-EM server.

* Lab 1: Generate a new service ticket and get users
* Lab 2: Network Device Related APIs
* Lab 3: Host and Task Service APIs
* Lab 4: Path Trace - Flow Analysis APIs

Commit message:

update apic-em API call url

labs/apic-em-basic/1.md, after:

# APIC-EM REST API Learning Labs - Basic Labs

### <font color='red'><b>This Lab is for the GA release 1.2. The url for API call in DevNet APIC-EM GA 1.2 always on sandbox is https://devnetapi.cisco.com/sandbox/apic_em</b></font>

## Getting Started

If you are using Cisco-provided hardware at a Cisco event:

*  Lab files are already downloaded into working directory: **C:\apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs**
*  You DO NOT need to change any settings.<br></br>

If you are working from your own laptop, please take the following steps to set up your system:

*  Install Python 3 and Git on your computer. See **How To Set up Your Own Computer** at the top of this page.
*  Download and install Git.  The download URL is **[https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)**
*  Download the lab files from GitHub.<br>
 
```
cd <your working directory>
```

If you are in the DevNet Zone at a Cisco Live Event open the Git Command window by either clicking on the 'Git CMD' icon on the Task Bar or in the Run bar type 'git cmd'.  In the git command window type the command below.

```
git clone https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs
```
After the git clone completes, you will have all of the Python files that the lab steps use.
*  In order to run the Python scripts outside of a Cisco event, you need to set the **ip** variable to the IP address of the Cisco APIC-EM controller that you want the scripts to call. This variable is in the **apicem_config.py** file.
For example:

```
ip = 'devnetapi.cisco.com/sandbox/apic_em'
```
## Executing Lab Examples

To execute the scripts, take the following steps:

1. Open a terminal and switch to the directory that holds the learning lab sample code.  Typically, this is the **`apicem-ga-1.2-ll-sample-code-basic-labs`** directory of your working directory.
2. Invoke Python3 as appropriate for your OS:

  *Mac OS or Linux:* **type: python3 _programName_**<br/>
  *Windows:* **type: py –3 _programName_**. Or **type: python _programName_**
  </p>




## Overview
The APIC-EM Controller provides REST-based API access to Enterprise, WAN and Campus networks. Network programmability and automated network control helps IT to respond more rapidly to changing network conditions and related business opportunities.

The APIC-EM has a southbound interface that speaks directly to the network control plane. Southbound interfaces are not exposed directly but are used to execute the commands that you specify with via the Northbound (NB) REST API. Thus, you can use the Northbound REST API to APIC-EM to develop your own custom controller or to add dynamic SDN functionality directly into your own applications.

## About this Learning Lab
This learning lab demonstrates basic usage of the Cisco APIC-EM Northbound REST API.

### What You Should Know Already

If you are not familiar with the following topics, you can complete the **[Coding 101: REST API Basics Lab](https://learninglabs.cisco.com/labs/coding-101-rest-basics-ga/step/1)** to learn about REST and JSON before returning to this lab.

This lab assumes you are familiar with the following:

* [**REST** (Representational State Transfer)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer)<br>
**Representational State Transfer (REST)** is a programming model that is based on the HTTP request-response model. A REST request is similar to the text that you type into your Web browser's address bar to go to a Web site.

*  [**JSON** (JavaScript Object Notation)](http://json.org)<br>
**JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)** represents REST data in a human-readable block format that looks similar to JavaScript.  

*  [**Python programming language**](https://www.python.org/)<br>
   You don't have to be a Python expert to work through this lab, but some familiarity with Python or another high-level programming language is necessary.

### Structure of Learning Lab Code Examples
Each lab provides a code example that consists of three main sections:

* **Code**: The Python code that executes a particular REST request  
* **Output**: The complete result of executing the code example. Note that your result may not match this Web page exactly.
* **Explanation**: A description that interleaves code and output to describe how the code works, what the output means, and any other points of interest, such as things to keep in mind when writing your own code.

### Shorthand Notation of APIC-EM NB REST API URLs
A complete Northbound REST request to the Cisco APIC-EM controller takes the form of a URL like the following example:

```
https://fqdn-Or-IPofController/api/v1/api_itself
```

This part of the URL, called the **Base URL**, <i> i.e </i> **https://fqdn-Or-IPofController**, is common to all requests sent to a particular controller:


### About APIC-EM Northbound (NB) REST API Version Numbers
Every Cisco APIC-EM request URL includes a version number. The GA release of Cisco APIC-EM provides version 1 of the NB REST API; calls to this controller must include v1 in the URL.  For the most part, the Learning Labs use GA 1.0 Cisco APIC-EM controllers and v1 of the NB REST API. <br/>
**Example:** api/v1/host


## Issuing HTTP Requests from Python

#### HTTP methods used in APIC-EM REST API
The APIC-EM Northbound REST API uses standard HTTP methods to CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) data.

HTTP | Operation
:------:|:------------:
POST| 	Create new data
GET | 	Read (Retrieve) existing data
PUT | 	Update existing data
DELETE |	Delete existing data

The following code snippets show how to use the Python `requests` library to issue each of these HTTP requests. You can  use these snippets as templates for issuing your own HTTP requests in this lab.

These examples rely on the following conventions:

* **apicem\_ip** is the IP address or fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) of the Cisco APIC-EM controller to which you are sending the request. <i>See</i> "Getting Started" for more information.

* **request\_name** is the portion of the NB REST API that you are calling  


#### GET
A **GET** request retrieves existing data.
```
import requests
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
response = requests.get(url,verify=False)
```

#### POST
A **POST** request creates new data. For security reasons, the Northbound REST API to APIC-EM always places POST request parameters and arguments in the JSON body.
```
import requests
import json

json_obj = {
"key":"value"
}
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
# need to specify content type -json- for POST request #
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}
response = requests.post(url, json.dumps(json_object), headers=headers,verify=False)
```

#### PUT
A **PUT** request modifies existing data. For security reasons, the NB REST API to APIC-EM always places PUT request parameters and arguments in the JSON body.

```
import requests
import json

json_obj = {
"key":"value_to_change"
}
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
# need to specify content type -json- for PUT request #
headers = {'content-type': 'application/json'}
response = requests.put(url, json.dumps(json_object), headers=headers,verify=False)
```

#### DELETE
A **DELETE** request removes existing data.

```
import requests
url = "https://apicem_ip/api/v1/api_itself"
response = requests.delete(url,verify=False)
```


## APIC-EM REST API Reference
For reference treatment of all NB REST APIs to the Cisco APIC-EM controller, see the
[Cisco APIC-EM API Reference Docs](http://devnetapic.cisco.com/)

## APIC-EM server in this lab
This lab uses the Cisco APIC-EM controller that the [Cisco DevNet Always-On Sandbox](https://developer.cisco.com/site/devnet/sandbox/) provides. To use a different controller, set the **apicem_ip** variable in the **apicem_config.py** file appropriately. For more information, *see* the "Getting Started" section of this lab.

## Sample scripts
All Python sample scripts are working in a flat directory.
**apicem\_config.py** 
is used for configuring parameters in different environment. 
Those parameters are APIC-EM IP (including port number), username, password and the apic-em API version number. If you are using your own APIC-EM this is the file you need to modify.
**apicem.py**
This script contains common functions. Every script needs to import apicem.py except the first sample script that demonstrates how to get service ticket.

## What's next?
The following lab sessions create simple Python applications that interact with the Cisco APIC-EM controller by means of the NB REST API. We recommend strongly that you run the scripts in each lab session to see the live responses from APIC-EM server.

* Lab 1: Generate a new service ticket and get users
* Lab 2: Network Device Related APIs
* Lab 3: Host and Task Service APIs
* Lab 4: Path Trace - Flow Analysis APIs
